4_jmt_adding_custom_header_to_packet.md, before:

# Adding a custom header to a packet and modifying its value with an action (Doramon and Dorayaki!)

The approach here is to:

1. Add a custom header called `doraemon` with a field called `dorayaki` to the packet creator script [send.py](./exercises/basic/send.py), which uses the Python library `scapy` to create network packets.

2. Add an action to the P4 file, which tells the switch to modify the value 
of the 'dorayaki' field.

The work here takes place in a modified version of the `basic` exercise, here in this directory: [basic_jmt_expt/](./exercises/basic_jmt_expt/)
Make sure you're in the above directory inside the VM when running the commands below.

# Understand `send.py` and xterms in mininet

The README.md (which one???) explains how to use xterm in mininet to get terminals on the hosts in the mininet network.  In short, to get terminals up for h1 and h3 do:

~~~
> xterm h1 h3
~~~

First we spin up a receiver in `h3`.  In `h3`'s xterm:

~~~
$ python3 receiver.py
~~~

We can then use `send.py` to send a packet from `h1` to `h3`.  In `h1`'s xterm:

~~~
$ python3 send.py 10.0.3.3 "hello"
~~~

You can look inside `pod-topo/pod-topo.png` to see the IP addresses for each host in this demo topology.


# Create the network packet

# Adding a 'doraemon' layer to a scapy packet with field 'dorayaki' 

Done.

Commit message:

added more detail to creation of doraemon packet

4_jmt_adding_custom_header_to_packet.md, after:

# Adding a custom header to a packet and modifying its value with an action (Doramon and Dorayaki!)

The approach here is to:

1. Add a custom header called `doraemon` with a field called `dorayaki` to the packet creator script [send.py](./exercises/basic/send.py), which uses the Python library `scapy` to create network packets.

2. Add an action to the P4 file, which tells the switch to modify the value 
of the 'dorayaki' field.

The work here takes place in a modified version of the `basic` exercise, here in this directory: [basic_jmt_expt/](./exercises/basic_jmt_expt/)
Make sure you're in the above directory inside the VM when running the commands below.

# Understand `send.py` and xterms in mininet

The README.md (which one???) explains how to use xterm in mininet to get terminals on the hosts in the mininet network.  In short, to get terminals up for h1 and h3 do:

~~~
> xterm h1 h3
~~~

First we spin up a receiver in `h3`.  In `h3`'s xterm:

~~~
$ python3 receiver.py
~~~

We can then use `send.py` to send a packet from `h1` to `h3`.  In `h1`'s xterm:

~~~
$ python3 send.py 10.0.3.3 "hello"
~~~

You can look inside `pod-topo/pod-topo.png` to see the IP addresses for each host in this demo topology.


# Create the network packet with a new Doraemon layer

The pertinent files are:

1. [myDoraemon_header.py](./exercises/basic_jmt_expt/myDoraemon_header.py): This file defines the Doraemon layer of the packet with the integer dorayaki value.  Uses the `scapy` `Packet` class.
2. [send.py](./exercises/basic_jmt_expt/send.py): This creates the actual packets with the Doraemon layer stacked after the TCP layer (OSI layer 4) and before the payload.  It uses `scapy`'s convenient `/` operator to build and order the layers.

# Running the demonstration

<add detail here>
